add hub-dashboard as a poster (#3)
reichlab/decisions: project-posters/hub-dashboard.md

predtimechart's ability for vizualization: forecast hubs that have step-ahead
quantile predictions.

### Why are we doing this?

We are supporting timely communication of modeling hub results to
decision-makers.

Many, but not all hub administrators are proficient with GitHub or static sites.
For example, when the idea of a dashboard site was brought up to the community,
one adminstrator mentioned that this would be a huge help, but her team had no
capacity for maintaining another piece of infrastructure.

Similar websites exist for established efforts:

- https://respicast.ecdc.europa.eu/forecasts/
- https://covid19forecasthub.org/

However, the machinery to build these websites and visualizations was not
trivial. They required knowledge of R Markdown, JavaScript, and GitHub Actions
and that was just for the website.

These sites are run in conjunction with active periods for modeling hubs and it
should be possible for a hub admin to "set it and forget it"---that is, they 
should be able to add the information they need to add and not have to touch it
for another several momnths.

### What are we _not_ trying to do?

> We are _not_ trying to make a generalizable dashboard that can accomodate all

Author: mm I see

hub types.

### How do we judge success?

A successful outcome is a deployable website that can:

 - display an up-to-date predtimechart visualization with data from a specified hub
 - dispaly an evaluation report of model outcomes from the same specified hub
 - include custom markdown pages to describe the purpose of the hub
 - be customizable wrt to theme
 - automatically be built when a modeling round closes
 - be built on demand

>  - does not require knowledge of anything more than Markdown or YAML

Author: ## Executive Summary

I think that's a fair assessment, and the discussion is a bit broader scope than this particular project. The app and the distributed workflows are not mutually exclusive options. The way we currently operate still requires a fair bit of effort. The app was designed as a kind of stretch goal to satisfy the fact that the CDC folks did not have the capacity to maintain yet another site.

## Broader Description

My take on this is that providing a standard set of GitHub actions still requires maintenance on our part and it really depends on the service level hub admins will expect from the core developers. 

There are a few models that exist for this, each with decreasing technical expertise required for users: 

1. GitHub actions or [reusable workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/sharing-automations/reusing-workflows) and require admins to build their own workflows.
2. GitHub workflows and require admins to be aware of updates and update accordingly.
3. GitHub workflows and provide help to admins who need it. 
4. GitHub app that triggers centralized workflow. 

For example, [r-lib/actions](https://github.com/r-lib/actions) is primarily strategy 1 and secondarily strategy 2. 

Our current strategy with the hubs is pretty firmly in strategy 3, but not everyone gets the message to update (think about how many emails you and Nick must field per day) which causes problems that require extra effort on everyone's part (e.g. [the recent ubuntu kerfuffle](https://groups.io/g/hubverse/topic/github_actions_workflow/110067076) leading to https://github.com/cdcepi/FluSight-forecast-hub/pull/1251). I've had plenty of experience with this strategy and I find it even more taxing than any of the other strategies because it's so hard to make sure that everyone is up-to-date. I actually continue to get notifications from The Carpentries that workflows have failed because I was the last one to update them. 

I still haven't been able to describe it well enough, but the way I am envisioning the hub dashboard orchestration working is that an app and a workflow are not mutually exclusive. If we provide re-usable workflows (strategy 1) AND provide example workflows (strategy 2), then hub admins who are comfortable with GitHub workflows can use those to build their dashboard websites. 

However, given the desire to not require yet another set of workflows to maintain, the app can be an optional step in to fill that role (as long as we label that as beta).

 - render equations
 - be independent from a hub

### What are possible solutions?

There are four pieces that are required for success: 

1. website generator,

> 2. predtimechart vis,

Author: oh gotcha. I had actually missed that point 😳

3. evaluations dashboard, and 
4. the orchestration of these tools for continuous deployment

Each of the elements should be independent.

#### 1. website generator

 - Ship a static site generator (Hugo, Jekyll)
 - Ship a _theme_ for a static site generator
 - Readthedocs
 - Quarto
 - R Markdown website

>  - Docker container

Author: Yes, we can.

 - streamlit

#### 2. predtimechart vis

Installable python app

#### 3. evaluations dashboard

> - R markdown document, quarto document, or similar that pre-computes scores and all tables/figures used to display them.
> - Two-part process:
>   1. R or python script runs at round close to compute scores and save them e.g. in an S3 bucket or on GitHub
>   2. Javascript app running in client side browser fetches data as needed and generates plots/etc
> - Web app with server-side logic to render tables and/or figures, e.g. using Shiny or Streamlit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two pieces to the dashboard:

1. Creation of score data
2. The website itself

For score data, we will write functionality in R to compute scores after the close of each modeling round when target data become available and cache the scores for later retrieval by the process that's used to create the web app.

- We will use R to compute scores because there is existing functionality for score computation in the hubverse in the hubEvals package
- Saving score data:
    - S3 bucket
    - github pages branch of the github repo used for the dashboard
    - Another branch on a github repo used for the dashboard

The interactive website:
- R markdown document, quarto document, or similar that pre-computes all tables/figures used to display scores.
- Javascript app running in client side browser fetches data as needed and generates plots/etc. This is similar to predtimechart.
- Web app with server-side logic to render tables and/or figures, e.g. using Shiny or Streamlit
- webR or webpy runs R or python in the browser to dynamically create figures and tables
```

## ✅ Validation

### What do we already know?

 - website: this is a small site that will be generated several times per week, so build speed is not essential
 - website: there are over 400 static site generators, and they all interpret markdown a little differently
 - website: quarto has the closest markdown syntax to GitHub
 - website: readthedocs is mostly plug-and-play (no deployment workflow), but the structure is not simple.
 - website: all static site generator templates are complex in some way
 - webiste: docker can provide an abstraction for any static site generator we want
 - website: quarto documents can be easily themed

 - evaluations: R markdown documents to precompute scores and tables generate very large HTML files that take a long time to load.
 - evaluations: If we use a static website, we are unable to use a service like shiny or streamlit

 - orchestration: GitHub provides unlimited free workflow runs for all public repositories
 - orchestration: (example) the hubverse distributed workflows sporadically require updates from the hub administrators
   - this requires extra communication directly with administrators

>  - orchestration: (example) the r-universe is an opt-in process that requires little to no effort from package maintainers

Author: Sure! I'll comment briefly here and expand in a subsequent commit.

We do not use the R-universe in this process, but we use its framework as an example of how this can work.
